>> David Khourshid: Okay,
the next topic that I want to talk about,
which has come up in previous questions
and conversation, is data normalization.
And so the key part of this is avoiding
nested and deeply nested data structures.
And we want to do this for two reasons.
The first reason is performance.
So when you have a flat data structure,
then you have either
constant lookups or lookups of at
most o of n instead of O times m,
which just gets exponentially bigger when
you need to find a specific piece of data.
So that's why keeping things
flat is really useful.
And the second reason is because you want
to make things easier to both update and
understand in your code base
when it comes to nested data.
So one of the examples that
came up was nested forms.
And so let's say that you have
a nested form where you're managing,
just going with the same travel theme,
you're managing multiple passengers.
And each passenger has a name.
They have a passport number, a known
traveler ID number, birth date, et cetera.
So the way that you might model this
at first is you would say, okay, yeah,
this is definitely a just a nested form.
We have passengers as an array, and
then inside each array is an item
with even more things inside.
And so they might have, let's say you
have to put in countries you visited.
So now there's even more nesting
going on inside of that object.
And so, it becomes difficult to
update those items because you
have to drill deeply into
that object structure.
And also, it actually is bad for
performance too.
And the reason it's bad is because when
you're updating something that's deeply
nested, you're not only updating
that specific item, you're also
updating that item's parents and
that item's parent's parents, et cetera.
And so anything that only cares about
the parent is at risk of re rendering,
even if it doesn't care about
the child's data inside.
And so this is why data normalization,
it's very good for those two reasons,
both performance improvements and
also understandability.
What we're going to do is we're actually
going to learn to normalize data and
we're going to be doing the same approach
where we're doing things side by side.
But I'm just going to show
you an example over here,
normalization page, and I'm just going to
actually make a quick oops,
quick demo page.
So
>> David Khourshid: Let's say that we have
that same example where we
have const flight data.
So we might have a, you know,
reservation ID and that might be a string,
you know, flight number or we might
have like a flight related to that.
And then we might have some passengers.
And so each of these passengers
will also have some ID.
So this might be John Doe, etc.
And we might also have
visited countries and
then we have a lot of
nested data going on.
So we have our flight inside, we have
the reservation ID inside, et cetera.
There's just a lot going on here.
In fact, let's make another passenger,
Jane Doe,
they both went to
the same three countries.
So when you want to update, for
example, the name of this passenger or
the visited countries, the problem is
that we're essentially just changing
every single part in this structure and
you're potentially causing a re render for
anything that relies on anything
inside of this flight's data.
So what can we do instead?
Well, let's actually make this bigger so
we have const flights and
then we might have a, or
let's call this itinerary.
And in our itinerary we might
have a bunch of flights and
inside that we might have like flights
data over here or actually let's call
this reservations because our itinerary
might have multiple reservations.
So let's have it generate another
one over here just for an example.
So instead of having a deeply
nested data structure like this,
what we could do instead is we could
flatten this a little bit and for
example, let's pull out
passengers over here.
So what will this look like?
We'll have a passenger, so we'll have
the same information right over here.
And instead we're going to
relate it to the reservation.
So we're going to have a reservation ID
for example, 123 and same thing over here.
So let's just get rid of this.
And now the difference is
that we no longer need
to nest that data deeply inside of there.
We could even do the same thing for
flights if we wanted to.
But just for demonstration purposes,
we're going to flatten just this one area.
So now let me just do
a split screen over here.
Before, when we were looking up,
for example,
the passengers of a specific
reservation we would have to
do const passengers equals
itinerary reservations.
First we would have to
find the reservations.
So we would say r.i =,
let's say it's equal to 1, 2, 3.
So that's the first level
where we have to look at.
And then we would have to just grab,
let's grab a specific passenger.
So then passengers and then we have to
find that passenger from there as well.
So we're doing a lot of nested searching.
But when we have a more normalized
structure besides the performance
benefits we get,
let's say we have a const johnPassenger.
We could look directly at the passengers.
So we could say itinerary.passengers,
where the passenger
reservationId is 123 and
the passenger id is John Doe.
So that's just an example.
I mean they're around the same lines
of code, but the difference is in the.
And that's only because we're word
wrapping see that one's actually shorter.
But you are going to see
benefits in performance and
also your data structure is
going to be a lot simpler.
And the third thing too is going back
to a previous exercise that we did.
When you're modeling things in
an entity relationship diagram,
everything is flat, so
there is no nesting.
Everything is related to each
other via those foreign keys.
And so
we could model that exactly the same and
see similar benefits in our
front end applications as well.
So that's where data normalization
just becomes very useful.